Hashtags are dead. And in fact, they've
probably been dead for years. 2021 was
actually the first time that I
proclaimed that hashtags are dead. And
since then, there have been more and
more studies that have come out,
features that have changed, and
statements made by official Instagram
staff that have supported that claim.
Now, I think there's a pretty massive
divide between the two groups of people
who clicked on this episode. Half of you
are like, "Yeah, Brock. I know hashtags
are dead. They've been dead for years.
So, what do I do next?" If that's you,
go ahead and fast forward over the next
few minutes.
But if that's not you, and you clicked
on this episode thinking, "Hashtags
aren't dead. How am I supposed to grow
on Instagram without hashtags? Hashtags
are a central way to grow, right,
Brock?" Let me explain to you why I say
they're dead. Number one, there are
multiple studies that have shown that
they are far less effective nowadays
than they were just a few years ago,
including a recent Social Pilot study
that showed that the more hashtags you
used, the less views you received. And
also, according to that study, posts
with zero hashtags performed the best.
But of course, numbers can be deceptive.
So, what has Adam Mosseri, the head of
Instagram, said? He is on the record
numerous times as saying, "Hashtags are
not a reliable way to increase your
reach."
>> No, adding hashtags does not
meaningfully increase the chances that
you get more reach or meaningfully
affect your reach. Hashtags still exist.
They do not meaningfully help your
reach. People try to use them as a
growth hack, but it's not particularly
effective.
>> They think it's a way to get a lot more
reach, and it's not. It is not an
effective way to grow reach at all.
>> Hashtags are no longer a primary way to
increase your reach on Instagram.
>> significantly increase your reach on
Instagram.
>> Got you.
>> Contrary to popular belief, it's just
not an important thing for for reach.
>> But of course, he's the head of
Instagram. So, he's likely going to be
telling you things that are in
Instagram's best interest, not
necessarily always in your best
interest. So, let's look at what
features have changed. Over the last few
years, there are three key features that
have been removed from Instagram that
signal the declining importance or the
declining effectiveness of hashtags. The
first one is that Instagram has removed
the ability to follow hashtags. You may
not even know that this existed, but a
few years ago, you were able to follow
hashtags just like you followed any
other person. And when you followed a
hashtag, top posts from within that
hashtag would show up in your feed. And
that is the second major hashtag related
feature that Instagram has gotten rid
of. You no longer see posts from
hashtags in your feed from following the
hashtags. And number three, Instagram
has removed the recents section below
hashtags. It used to be that whenever
you searched a hashtag, there would be
two different categories. One would be
top, which had an algorithm to decide
what were the top posts made using that
hashtag. And then the recents section,
which was just a reverse chronological
order list of every single post that was
ever made using that hashtag. And I
believe that it is the removal of the
recents category that has significantly
impacted the reach and engagement
provided by hashtags because a lot of
people used to discover other people
through the recents section. And not to
mention, a lot of scammers and spammers
used to go through the recents section
and just like and or comment on and
engage with every single post made
recently using a hashtag. So without the
guaranteed engagement from spammers and
without the occasional discovery from
someone just looking at the recents
category, we can see quite plainly that
hashtags are not going to be as
effective nowadays as they were in the
past. Now the one big exception that I'm
going to make to the entire episode
today is if you need followers within a
very specific geographic region. I'm not
talking about followers within the US or
followers who speak English, but like if
you need followers within a specific
county or within a specific city, well
then hashtags might be effective for you
because some people are still searching
for hashtags within that city. For
example, hashtag fitness coach is way
too broad and it's unlikely that you are
ever going to rank as a top post for
that hashtag. You're very unlikely to
ever get additional reach or engagement
from using such a hashtag. But if you
are a hashtag women's fitness coach in
Kansas City, using that sort of a
hashtag might allow you to find people
within that geographic region. But, what
I just described is essentially the
first way to grow on Instagram without
hashtags, and that is what is replacing
hashtags, which is SEO. SEO is nothing
new. SEO has been around for 20 plus
years, and it stands for search engine
optimization. Basically, SEO means using
keywords and phrases in your posts that
describe the post. And this is something
that I don't want you to stress out over
because this is something that most of
us do organically. In most of your
posts, you are using words and phrases
that people would be searching for in
order to find your content anyways. The
biggest tip that I can give you when it
comes to search engine optimizing your
content is don't overcomplicate things.
Simplify your content. Make your content
so simple and understandable that a
drunk grandma could understand it. And
if you do that, you will show up in more
search results, and it will be easier
for the algorithm to place you in front
of the right audience. And those two A's
of algorithm and audience are the two
things that we are search engine
optimizing our posts for.
Algorithmically speaking, we want our
posts to include these keywords and
phrases so that the algorithm can figure
out what our post is about, what topics
are covered in our post. And then, once
it knows that, it can show us to the
audience that it thinks would be
interested in those topics.
Additionally, speaking of audience, when
people are searching for different terms
and topics, when they're searching for a
fitness coach in Kansas City, Missouri,
you are more likely to come up in their
search results if you use words and
phrases that relate to that or that are
directly that in your post. Now, when I
say using words and phrases that relate
to your post, there's two places that I
would recommend searching if you're just
really stuck on, "Hey, I don't know what
words people are using. I'm struggling
to figure out if they would call
something this or that." For example, I
was working with one of our InstaClub
students who called herself a
balloonist, but upon further
investigation, what she actually did was
corporate balloon art. She made like
balloon archways and balloon entryways
and balloon signs for corporate business
events. And so we changed the language
that she was using in her Instagram post
to call herself a corporate balloon
artist rather than someone who was a
balloonist. But the two tools that I
recommend using to do a little bit of
research and figure out what words
people are actually using are number
one, good old Google Trends. Google
Trends will show you exactly what people
are Googling and you can see a graph
over time showing how different people
have searched for different terms in
Google and you can even specify
different geographic locations. So you
can find what words are people searching
for in Florida versus California. And
besides Google Trends, I also recommend
the site Answer the Public. Answer the
Public is a really great tool for typing
in one to two keywords that generally
describe your niche or the industry that
you're in and then it will give you all
of the most common search queries that
relate to that term or topic. And then
once you have these keywords and
phrases, where do you put them? I've
been saying use it in the post, but
where exactly should you use them in
your post? Here are the four most
important areas ranked in reverse order.
The fourth most important place to
include these SEO-friendly keywords and
phrases according to Adam Mosseri
himself is within the comments section.
Now of course, you can't control what
other people are commenting, but you can
kind of steer the comments based off
what questions you're asking in your
post or any sort of open-ended thing
that you leave in the post that might
encourage people to have a conversation.
Additionally, if you leave a comment on
your own post and you make that the new
pinned comment, it is more likely to get
more engagement, get more likes, and for
more people to see it, and thus the
algorithm will weight that more heavily
than other comments. The third most
important place for SEO keywords and
phrases is in the audio. Now of course,
you can't control the words in the song,
but you can pick which song you are
adding and even more important than
that, if you have any sort of voiceover
spoken audio, maybe you're talking to
the camera, those things are the third
most important in the algorithm's eyes
for determining what your post is about
and whom to show your post to. The
second most important area is the post
itself. Basically, anything that is on
the screen. This includes words that you
have written on the screen, whether
that's text that you've added, labels,
titles, hooks, closed captions,
basically any text that you've added, or
even any text in the image itself. One
of my favorite examples of the algorithm
messing up a little bit was that I once
posted a carousel with real ideas.
That's what the text on the screen said.
I think it said 37 real ideas for July
or something like that. And I was
wearing a t-shirt that said rare fish
investor. It's a meme t-shirt, don't
worry. But the Instagram algorithm read
my t-shirt and thought that my post was
about rare fish investing tips, which
was quite a funny mistake, but it proved
that the algorithm is able to read and
scan every single part of your post,
even down to the text on your t-shirt.
And then finally, in first place, the
most important area to include
SEO-friendly words and phrases is in
your caption. Now, there is a disclaimer
that I need to make here. With the
information that the caption is the most
important area for SEO words and
phrases, what some people have begun
doing is writing their normal caption,
but then at the bottom of their caption,
writing out a bunch of tags, kind of
like you would add tags to a YouTube
video. And they're separating them by
commas or periods or whatever. The way a
lot of people used to do it with
hashtags. That is not recommended, and
that is actually something that
Instagram deems keyword stuffing, and
they view that as a spammy behavior. So,
if at the bottom of your caption, you're
just writing out a bunch of tags and
keywords and phrases and hoping that
that's going to help you, it's actually
going to harm you. So, don't do that.
Instead, organically use those words and
phrases in your actual caption.
And the way that I like to do this is
that in the first sentence of the
caption, I like to restate what the
video is about, summarize the tips or
topic or story that is being shared in
the video, or even just restate the same
hook that I included at the beginning of
the reel. Before I share the second out
of eight ways that you're going to get
more views on Instagram without using
hashtags, don't forget to subscribe to
this podcast because every single week I
put out a new episode on this channel
with helpful tips, strategies, and ideas
to help you grow your business on
Instagram. But, back into our list of
strategies, the second way that you're
going to get more views on Instagram
without hashtags is all or nothing
editing. And when I say all or nothing
editing, I want to show you this graph
that I've come up with. It's kind of
like a reverse bell curve, if you will.
And on the Y axis, on the left-hand side
of the graph, we have views, or how many
views do these different kinds of posts
receive. And on the bottom axis, the X
axis, we have the amount of editing that
went into the post. And because this is
a reverse bell curve, it's kind of like
a a U-shaped graph. On the far left end
of the spectrum, we have minimal
editing, next to no editing. These are
what are going viral right now, being
called yapping reels or FaceTime
content. Content where you are just
speaking directly to the camera. It
feels unscripted and it feels very much
like one friend talking to another. The
trick of these yapping reels is that
they oftentimes are very scripted.
They're very thought out, and they take
dozens of takes to be able to speak
eloquently for 60 to 90 seconds
consecutively without any sort of
pauses, ums, ers, or ahs, or filler
words. It takes a lot of practice, and
it's much easier said than done, but
when it's done well, it can be very
engaging because it feels authentic.
They feel so genuine and so real. And
these kinds of reels require little to
no editing. The time and energy that
these reels take to create is the time
and energy that it takes to do those 17
takes, and they perform very well
because of it. On the far opposite end
of the spectrum, the far right end of
the X axis, we have reels that have a
lot of editing. Think of people like OMG
Adrian or RPN, Roberto Nickson. These
are people who spend hours creating
their content. They have multiple
professional cameras, lighting, and
years of experience. And so, my
recommendation for you is either go all
in like these two people who I just
named, and really make your ending
cinematic and professional with sound
effects and dynamic editing and visuals
that are happening and your own custom
graphics, or go to the opposite end of
the spectrum and don't do any editing at
all. Make it pure, real, authentic
yapping. One of my most controversial
pieces of advice is that if at any given
time you don't have at least seven posts
that are completely done, meaning
they're fully edited, the caption is
written, and they are scheduled ready to
go on Instagram, then you should take
two weeks off of posting content. The
algorithm won't punish you for doing so,
but by taking two weeks off of posting,
you can instead spend two weeks on just
creating. Batch creating, if you will.
Creating as much as you possibly can,
and then use my favorite tool,
Metricool, to schedule all of that.
Metricool is the tool that I've been
using to schedule all of my posts on
Instagram for the last four to five
years, and no, using a scheduling tool
will not hurt your engagement or your
views. Instagram CEO Adam Mosseri said
that himself. And the cool thing about
Metricool is that you could
theoretically use it for free forever.
Now, of course, I recommend using their
premium features. Those are the features
and tools that I use to make sure that
my posts are performing best, but you're
in luck because you can use those for
free for a month if you use the code
Brock. I'll put the link down in the
description of this video. I highly
suggest using a scheduling tool, and
Metricool is the one that I think is
best for you. The third way that you're
going to get more views on Instagram
without hashtags is to improve your
hooks. Now, of course, hooks are the
basic. Hooks are so necessary. Hooks are
something that you've heard about a
million times. They're something that I
did an entire episode a few weeks ago
about how to improve your hooks and come
up with better ones. You can click on
that link down in the description below.
But the specific recommendation that I'm
going to give you today is to use what's
called a hook swap. A hook swap is when
you take an already existing video with
a viral hook. Now, you have to be
careful because not all of these are
approved for reuse. Some creators don't
want you or do not give approval to
other creators to stitch or reuse their
hooks, but there are some databases
online, there are some collections, we
have some in the InstaClubhub, of these
hook swap videos that you can reuse and
that have been approved. And
essentially, what you're doing here is
you're not trying to reinvent the wheel,
you're not even trying to remake the
wheel, you're literally using the wheel
off of an F1 car. I guess that might not
be the best analogy because if you were
using a tire that was already used by an
F1 car, it's probably pretty shredded,
but you get what I'm saying. These hook
swap videos are very, very effective and
two of my favorite accounts that are
using them very well are number one,
Wants and Needs Brand, and number two,
Citizen the Artist. I will link them up
in the show notes below. And then if you
want an entire library of these hook
swap videos that you can use for
yourself, just DM me on Instagram the
word swap, s w a p. My Instagram is
brock11johnson. Make sure you follow me
before you send me that DM, but when you
do so, you'll get that entire library of
hook swap videos for free. But the key
with hook swap videos is what's called a
match cut. And a match cut is a
cinematography term that basically means
that the ending of the first clip
matches the beginning of the second clip
in some way. Now, there's a variety of
ways that you can do this. You can do it
using the shape on the screen. So,
imagine there's a camera looking
overhead at a coffee cup, and then it
cuts seamlessly to a wheel spinning like
a tire, and then it kind of maybe zooms
out from the tire and you can see the
whole car, but because the shape of the
circle of the coffee cup and the shape
of the circle of the wheel on the car
are the same, that's what's called a
match cut. You can also match action.
So, if I'm like swiping my hand to the
right, I could start a new scene where
I'm finishing the swipe of my hand to
the right and I'm in a new location.
Basically, this creates a seamless edit
or a seamless cut, which if asked to,
you could say you're like, "Yeah, I see
that there's a cut there. I see that
we're in a new scene. I see that we're
in a new location. But our brain takes a
second and our subconscious doesn't
necessarily recognize it as fast. And so
it allows the viewer to kind of stay in
the moment a little bit more. And thus
it allows you to swap from these viral
hooks into the rest of your reel or
whatever it is that you want to post
about. The fourth way that you're going
to get more views on Instagram is you're
going to create share-worthy content.
Adam Mosseri is on the record of saying
that the best way to get disconnected
reach is to get more shares.
Translation, if you want more new
people, more people who don't already
follow you to view your reels, then you
need to get more shares. Sharing is
caring. And according to one study, one
share on Instagram equates to over 250
additional views. To say it another way,
a share is the best form of engagement.
A share is stronger in the algorithm's
eyes than a like, a comment, or a save.
So, in order to get more shares, I've
come up with an acronym to help you
remember what is share-worthy.
Share-worthy content is S, simple. I
already talked to you about the drunk
grandma rule, but essentially, the
simpler you can make your posts, the
better. The easier it is to understand
your vocab, the easier it is for people
to just understand what your reel is
about without any additional context,
without having to read your caption,
without having to know what you do for a
living, the more likely your posts are
to get shared and to reach more people.
The H stands for hook, which we've
already talked quite a bit about hooks.
If you want your posts to get shared,
well then obviously, first and foremost,
you have to hook in that audience and
grab their attention. The A in the
acronym stands for authentic or
authenticity. And authenticity is one of
these buzzwords that people love to
throw around nowadays. And oftentimes,
you'll hear the advice that if you want
to be authentic, just be yourself. And
while that is true, I don't think that's
very helpful advice. So, here is my
practical way that you're going to make
your posts more authentic. You're going
to reduce the time between idea and
execution. The less time that you can
spend between, hey, I have this post I
want to make, I have this tip I want to
share, I have this story I want to tell
and actually pressing post, the more
authentic they will be. To say it the
opposite way, the more time that you
spend editing, refining, scripting,
filming, re-filming, chat GPT-ing, the
less authentic they will become. The R
in the acronym stands for relatable and
relatability comes from specificity.
What do I mean by that? Let's imagine
that you have a meme and it's a meme of
the guy who represents anger in the
movie Inside Out, right? He is this
little tiny ball of fire. If I posted
that meme on my Instagram and I said,
"Me when my post flops." It might get a
few shares and it might get a few
laughs, but it's not super relatable
because it's not super specific. It's a
little bit specific. I'm at least
labeling why I'm mad, but I haven't
given any specifics for my anger. If
instead I posted that photo of him and I
added the caption, "Me when I spend 3
hours editing a reel and it gets seven
likes." That will get significantly more
shares because it's significantly more
relatable because it is specific. So, if
you want your content to be more
share-worthy, include more of those
details. Don't just tell us how you're
feeling, show us. Illustrate what you're
going through. Use specific details and
focus on those specific nuance numbers
and experiences, the things that you
think, "I'm the only person who's ever
experienced this. I'm the only person
who thinks this way." I know that you're
a beautiful unique butterfly, but
chances are there are hundreds of
thousands, if not millions, if not maybe
even billions of people who have
experienced exactly what you are about
to post about, who have experienced
exactly what it is you're about to
share. So, by giving specifics, you
allow the mirror neurons in their mind
to fire, thus allowing them to relate to
you more, thus increasing the likelihood
that they share your post. And then
finally, E. E stands for entertainment,
not education. Now, for years you've
been told make your posts valuable and
that is true, but I believe a lot of
people have misinterpreted value as
education. And so, my recommendation for
you is to stop just giving out tips,
recommendations, and quick hacks, and
start focusing on entertainment first
and foremost. Would this video be
captivating to a stranger? Would it make
sense even to a stranger? Can you
include some sort of storytelling to
improve your entertainment value? And
one of the best ways to make your posts
more entertaining is not necessarily
dancing or being crazy or being wild.
But number one, embracing what makes you
unique. Use your own little words and
phrases. Be you. Be authentic and commit
to your Reels. And also, whenever
possible, include storytelling in your
posts, because stories are 22 times more
memorable than facts. Tip number five
is, whenever possible, include a human
face and a human voice in your content.
According to a recent study,
speech-based videos, so videos where
you're talking to the camera or where
there is a voice-over, see a 5.6% higher
engagement rate compared to ones with
music only. And those same speech-based
videos saw a retention rate increased by
25%. So, people watch the video for 25%
longer if there was a human voice in it.
Additionally, when there is a human face
appearing in the first 3 seconds, so
basically, when there's someone on the
screen in the hook, the overall
retention of the Reel increases by 10%
as well compared to Reels where there
was no human at the beginning. So, while
it's absolutely possible to grow an
Instagram without over-showing your face
and faceless Instagram accounts can have
success, it is more likely to be
effective if you show your face and or
voice at the beginning of your Reels.
Tip number six for you to get more views
without using hashtags is what I like to
call commit to the bit. I'm sure that
you've seen Reels where people are doing
street interviews or they filmed at the
park or they're filming their Reel
downtown. If you can get outside, your
Reel will get more engagement. In fact,
we recently did a test at the Insta Club
Hub where we filmed the exact same reels
with the exact same scripts and the only
difference was that one was filmed
inside and one was filmed outside and
the ones that were filmed outside
consistently performed better. In fact,
on average, they performed 34% better in
terms of views and engagement. So,
whenever possible, commit to your reels.
If you have a big idea, commit to it. If
you need a prop, buy it. If you have an
idea that you're going to go downtown
and film, go downtown and film it. Yes,
it's scary, but it's that scaryness that
people will appreciate and that people
will engage with the reel because of.
And so, whenever possible, film your
reel outside. Go downtown to the busy
street. Do the thing that makes you feel
cringe. Step out of your comfort zone
because that is where growth happens in
life and on Instagram. Tip number seven
for you to get more views on Instagram
is, and this is really simple, post
more. Now, simple doesn't necessarily
mean easy, but for years you've been
hearing me say, "The more you post, the
more you grow." And I'm talking about to
the feed. Stories don't count. The more
you post to the feed, the more you grow.
But, according to a recent study by
Buffer, the more you post over time, the
more your engagement rate increases.
Now, what most people experience is that
in the short term, in the first one to
two months after increasing their
frequency of posting, they see a
decrease in engagement and a decrease in
views and that's very scary. But, if you
can push through that initial 30 to
60-day hump, you will find that the more
you post, the more views you will get on
each of those individual posts. And if
you need help with posting more, that's
an entire topic that we could spend an
hour talking about. I've done episodes
in the past to help you figure out how
to post more, come up with more ideas,
and post more with less time, energy,
and effort. So, I'll link some of those
up in the description below. And then,
last but not least, the eighth and final
tip to help you get more views, and this
one is going to make you want to punch
me in the face, is post better content.
At the end of the day, Instagram wants
to push out the content that is
engaging. That is Instagram's business
model. If they can push out content that
people want to engage with, people spend
more time on the platform, they're more
engaged with the platform, and Instagram
can charge more for their advertising on
Instagram. And so, at the end of the
day, if your posts aren't getting the
views that you feel like they deserve,
they're probably just not that good. And
I know that sucks to hear, and I know
you're thinking, "Well, Brock, I
recreate exactly what this person does,
and I do this, and I do this, and I
check off these boxes." Take a harsh
look in the mirror, and I know this
sucks to hear, but if you can improve
the quality of your posts, you will
reach more people. A tactical way that
you can do this is find one thing that
you can improve from one post to the
next. Let's say you posted a reel today.
What is one thing that you can focus on
making more engaging for tomorrow? Maybe
it's your caption. Maybe it's your hook.
Maybe it's the visuals on the screen at
the beginning of your video. Maybe it's
your audio quality. Maybe it's how
concise you're saying something. Maybe
it's your on-camera charisma and
enthusiasm. Whatever that may be, if you
can improve one thing with each of your
posts, over the course of months and
years, that will compound, and
eventually you'll be making such great
posts that people will ask you, "How did
you do it? How did you grow? How did you
get that many views?" I know it's an
oversimplification, but ultimately, if
you want to grow on Instagram, post
more, post better, or do both. Thank you
so much for being here today, and as
always, happy networking.